[Music]
seven impressive and strange facts about
the male body what is the purpose of an
Adam's apple could male nipples lactate
the male body is full of surprises some
of its characteristics remain largely
unknown not only to women but to mend
themselves so if you want to know more
about the body you live in get ready
we've compiled a list of impressive and
peculiar facts about the male body and
some odd differences between male and
female bodies that you don't want to
miss but first make sure you click that
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to be the first to watch
our videos now let's get started number
one female origins did you know that all
of the human beings in the world begin
their existence as females well we all
do at least for a short while how is
this possible geneticists have
discovered that humans technically start
life as a blank slate and for the first
five to six weeks only the X chromosome
is present in a fetus the X and y
chromosomes are responsible for
determining an individual sex if two X
chromosomes join together during
conception a female is produced if an X
and a Y chromosome joined together a
male appears after the five to six week
period if the fetus is to be male the Y
chromosome finally appears in a process
called sexual differentiation the Y
chromosome releases androgens like
testosterone and represses the female
hormone estrogen and if the Y chromosome
never arrives then the fetus would
continue to develop as a female try to
remember a man's female origins as it'll
come in handy a little later number 2
baldness don't freak out if you've seen
some hair loss in the shower according
to the American Academy of Dermatology
people generally lose about 50 to 100
hairs per day and given that you have
over a hundred thousand follicles of
hair in your's
it seems okay to lose only fifty to a
hundred hairs but heavy hair loss that
leads to baldness is a problem affecting
a lot of men contrary to popular opinion
the gene of baldness is not passed on
exclusively by the mothers X chromosomes
there are other important factors if a
man's father is bald than his chances of
also losing his hair increased by 60%
the activity of male hormones also
affect hair follicles in such a way that
the body gradually loses its ability to
produce new hair the hair line begins to
receive and the hair on the top of the
head thins out stress and a poor diet
also significantly increased the risk of
going bald men with male pattern
baldness can start losing their hair as
early as their teenage years if this is
happening to you don't worry
it usually takes between 15 and 25 years
to go fully bulb and according to a
study by researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania bald men are perceived
as more dominant and attractive so you
can certainly rock that look number 3
men's faces aged slower than women's a
man's face preserves its youthful
appearance for many more years than a
woman's face does this is all down to
the fact that a man's skin loses its
concentration of collagen much more
slowly as he ages meaning that it's much
more resistant to wrinkling and sagging
however skincare habits and exposure to
sunlight might not make the difference
so noticeable for example if a woman
takes care of her skin and apply
sunscreen regularly she might look much
younger than a man who is the same age
but does not take care of his skin
though men have the advantage with
facial aging environmental factors can
add years to a man's skin and undo the
effects of collagen so now that you know
it might be a good time to run to the
store and apply a good layer of
sunscreen number 4 thick skin no we're
not talking about emotionally thick skin
according to dermatological studies
men's skin is thicker on the stratum
corneum which is the outermost layer of
the epidermis it provides a strong
barrier between the environment
and the living cells underneath here's
an interesting fact the stratum corneum
is also known as the horny layer but
don't get ahead of yourself it's called
that because the cells are toughened
like an animal's horn the hormone
testosterone is responsible for men's
thick skin causing it to be 25% thicker
than woman's skin however over their
lifetimes men's skin becomes thinner
more quickly whereas women's skin
remains the same thickness until they
reach menopause when it starts to thin
out the texture of a man's skin is also
very different from a woman's
superficially we notice that a man's
skin is rougher but we might not notice
that a man's skin also produces more
sebum than a woman's skin
saebom is an oily substance secreted by
the sebaceous glands and it helps the
skin and hair maintain their moisture
levels sounds like good news right but
it can also account for why men have
longer-lasting acne than women still
moisturize hair and skin seems to be a
significant advantage number 5 men's
bodies can lactate yes you heard that
right but have you ever wondered why men
have nipples in the first place remember
how we told you earlier that men
essentially started life as females men
and women are built from a common
pattern and that's the reason why men
have nipples
in theory men could lactate because male
breasts have milk ducts and some mammary
tissue another reason is that they have
the hormones responsible for milk
production oxytocin and prolactin but
don't get scared and don't expect to
start lactating any day now as it isn't
common there have been reports that
males have lactated after significant
stimulation to the nipples there have
also been reports of spontaneous
lactation which can be a bit awkward but
those instances can only occur when too
much of the hormone prolactin is
produced this might be the result of
certain types of medical treatment used
to stimulate the heart problems with the
pituitary gland and hypothalamus use of
opioids or extreme hunger so unless you
are taking medication that will react
with your prolactin levels you don't
have to worry about spontaneous like
patient shoe
number six the Adam's apple have you
ever wondered what the Adam's apple is
for did you notice when it started to
protrude during man's teenage years
their bodies experienced a series of
changes one of which is the protrusion
of the Adam's apple the Adam's apple
expands to account for the growth of the
larynx as the larynx grows the man's
voice becomes deeper and lower some men
can have a larger Adam's apple if their
voice box or larynx is large did you
know women can also have an Adam's apple
most women have a small version of the
Adam's apple and it's simply there to
protect the thyroid gland and vocal
chords some women can develop larger
Adam's apples if they have large
larynxes a large larynx may be caused by
an increase in testosterone number seven
color perception do you remember the
classic joke we've all seen on TV where
a woman brings a color palette to a man
to try to get his opinion on several
shades of white but the man only sees
one shade of white
research shows that there's actually a
basis for this joke men can discern far
fewer shades of color than women can and
the reason for this is really quite
simple color perception is determined by
retinal cone cells their information is
contained in the X chromosome and
because women have two X chromosomes the
number of cone cells they possess is
naturally twice as high as that of men a
professor at C UN wise Brooklyn college
tested a large group of men and women on
their color perception the results show
that women were more adept at
differentiating between subtle
gradations of color for some shades
women were able to detect tiny
differences in color that looked the
same to men however men are better at
perceiving changes in brightness
according to a 2014 scientific report
the color red has been shown to distort
a man's perception of time but not a
woman's don't you sometimes wish that
men and women could see eye-to-eye all
jokes aside the differences between
female and male eye perception is real
do you know of any other impressive
facts about the male body or any
generally unknown differences between
male and female bodies if
so tell us in the comment section and
don't forget to click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]